[heavy rainfall]
"Neji and Naruto looked up..."
"...and found themselves in a
space far different from
before..."
Are you the one who's
responsible for all of this?
Listen up! Return Kakashi
Sensei and everyone else
from the Leaf!
Or else you're gonna get it,
seriously big time!
Naruto, you need to get away
from him right now.
Look, stay out of this, all
right?!  I'm about to settle
this whole thing right here and
right now!
Just listen! Look at his eye!
(Naruto)
The Byakugan?
You're no match for
someone who possesses that.
[grunt]
Who exactly are you? And how
do you possess the Byakugan?
[gasp] Hold on... Don't tell
me you have ties to the Hyuga!
Look at the cloud of dust...
Your comrades are the ones...
who are responsible for that.
What happened?
They put the rules of their
village ahead of the lives of
children.
So many years have passed... and
yet the Hidden Leaf hasn't
changed one single bit.
And what would you know
about the Hidden Leaf?
Oh, I know plenty.
In fact, I know more than
anyone who's here at the moment.
[gasp]
(Masked Man)
Now... follow me, Neji Hyuga.
[gasp]
Come with me...  if you want to
know the ugly truth that the
Hidden Leaf has covered up.
What...? What is this guy
talking about?!
♪
"Jiraiya Ninja Scrolls: The Tale
of Naruto the Hero - The Masked
Man"
Oh, no!  Komichi, look out!
Huh?
Shadow Strangle Jutsu!
Now complete!
So you guys...
You actually came.
Hurry! Get the kid!
[roar]
[frightened gasp]
Damnit!
[struggling grunts]
Komichi! No!
[gasp] Ino!
Ninja Art: Mind Transfer Jutsu!
Komichi...!
Nagato, quickly!  Hurry up and
locate that monstrous creature!
Now!
(Shikamaru)
Leave it to us!
Her psyche has taken
over that child's body.
She can actually do that...!?
[roar]
She's probably having that kid
jump around inside it.
[angry roars]
Konan!
I'm ready!
[attack roar]
[dying roar]
[sigh]
Ino...!
Komichi!
Big brother! [cries]
Choji!
[grunts]
Ahhh!
[panting] Hey...! You almost
blew me up just now, ya know!
[small chuckle]
(Thinking)
What is that...? What's
up with his eyes?
Mommy!
Ashitaba! Komichi!
Thank goodness you're okay!
I'm sorry...
I'm so sorry!
Oh, I just knew that Lord
Mashima would protect you!
The both of you!
No, mom! It wasn't him... it was
those guys right over there...!
Uh, where...
did they...?
Listen, Even right from the
beginning, I never had the
impression that you wanted to
kill us.
Instead, you were trying to get
us to do something.
I was wrong about you...
I thought you'd never
disobey the Leaf's orders...
I thought you wouldn't live
outside the rules of the Leaf.
(Yahiko)
I assumed that was the
kind of shinobi you are...
...but I was wrong.
Very wrong.
Through your actions, you
demonstrated what Jiraiya
Sensei taught us...
You used your powers to help
people in need... even if those
people weren't from the Hidden
Leaf...
I was really glad... that
you came back to help out.
(Konan)
And thanks to you, we
were saved as well.
Uh?
Are you serious right now?
(Nagato)
Would the three of you
like to work with us?
[gasps]
What are they
talking about?
Hold on, weren't they the
ones who abducted Asuma
Sensei earlier?!
Yeah...
I'm not asking you to join
us... I don't want you to
split with the Leaf...
But we can travel from
nation to nation, like
Jiraiya Sensei does...
...and we can cross over their
meaningless borders.We can show
the world what freedom is about!
What does that mean?
Yeah, I know... it really is
pretty vague, isn't it...?
In other words, you want us to
be like Team Jiraiya, right?
I want our goals to be
united with yours.
You haven't even told us where
Asuma Sensei and the others are!
We're not as naïve as you seem
to think we are, you know!
Yeah! First things first!
You have to help us get
Asuma Sensei back.
That's right!
What'll it be?
I'm sorry to say this, but...
we can't help with that.
There's somebody else behind the
scenes pulling the strings,
isn't there?
This whole "test" thing doesn't
seem to be your idea, either.
Sorry.  We don't know much. They
haven't given us the details.
Tsk, you may not have all the
details, but you have some idea
of what's going on.
Man, what a drag. Well, I guess
that means... We're just gonna
have to fight it out, then.
I guess so. If we're at
odds with each other...
then there's no other way.
(Akamaru)
[barking]
One of yours?
Yeah. Well, three of
them. Plus a dog.
And all of them are strong.
Are you trying to imply
that we're weak?
[big yawn]
(Akamaru)
[bark]
Shikamaru! Choji! Ino!
Hey, guys!
We've been waiting for you!
Oh, yeah?
You're later than
we thought.
Oh, we ran into some trouble.
[sniffing]
Was someone else just here?
What? No.
Nuh-uh.
Just been us
this whole time...
Huh... that's weird. I could've
sworn that I caught the scent
of a few others...
Oh, really?
Anyway, what should
we do now, Shikamaru?
Oh, yeah! That's why we
rushed over here! To
find out the plan!
We'd like you to take
the lead, Shikamaru.
Ahem... Our first priority is to
get a report on the situation
back to the Leaf Village.
We need to get instructions from
Lord Fourth.  Of course...
We'll do what we can to get
Asuma and the others back, too!
Now, in order to allocate
the tasks, we'll join up
with Teams Kakashi and Guy.
It's a drag, so... let's
wrap this up quickly!
We can't waste any more
time with all of this.
We'll return to the village
and give them our report.
We can't afford any more
losses or casualties.
What are you talking about,
Sasuke?!  We have already lost
Guy Sensei.  And now even Neji
has gone missing! And Naruto
from your own team, too!
Look, all of this happened just
because he acted on his own.
After I warned him not to...
We are from the class
ahead of yours, so we do
not know Naruto that well...
But he is an important
friend, and besides that, a
member of Team 7, right?
He's a friend...?
(Rock Lee)
And not only all of that he is
also the precious son of the
Fourth Hokage!
I don't care
about that at all.
It has nothing to
do with the mission.
Argh! How can you be
so cold, Sasuke?!
I see Guy Sensei as a dear
mentor! And Neji is an
incredibly precious friend.
I cannot just turn
my back on them!
Lee, calm down!
Anyway, I am going to look for
Guy Sensei, Neji, and the
others!
They are bound to be somewhere
nearby.  I am completely certain
of it!
So I will not stop looking and
return to the village!
I can't let you do that.  We
have no clue what the enemy
might do, so we can't split up
our fighting power. We
have to stay together.
Oh! Neji! Guy Sensei! I
am coming to rescue you!
Okay, Lee!  I get it!  You've
made up your mind!  I'll help
you!  So please, stop!
They're all idiots...
Yeah, but...
What are you going to do?
[sniffing] It seems that the
other two teams did meet up...
But now, they're moving in
different directions...
Can you tell anything
more specific?
Let's see... One group is moving
away from the village, and the
other is frantically scrambling
around the village.
That's Lee...
So, then, Team Kakashi is
trying to leave the village?
Wait, could they be heading
back to the Hidden Leaf?
That's plausible.
The reason is because Sasuke,
who is cool-headed and
rational, is on Team Kakashi.
Anyway, we'll join with
the closest ones.
That'd be group in
the village, right?
That's right. If we're going to
rescue Asuma and the others,
the last thing we need is
someone making a fuss and
standing out!
We need to go and
calm Lee down...
[gasp]
Now, follow me if you want to
discover the true nature of the
Hidden Leaf.
What?!
What is this...!?
What's going on!?
Wait! That's Old Man Third!
But, uh... who are all of
those other guys down there?!
Hey, Neji, do you know?
Just be quiet!
You can make all
the noise you want.
What you're seeing are just
images of past events that
occurred in the Hidden Leaf
Village.
It cannot be helped. With just
my one life, the entire village
can be saved.
Just hold on, Hiashi!
Please don't be so hasty!
The Hyuga family's Kekkei Genkai
is one of the most important
strengths of our village.
...It's the sworn duty of the
head family to protect it
forever no matter what.
I know. But still, I must put
aside that duty if keeping it
means involving our village in a
desperate war!
(Elder)
I understand that, but...
Isn't that why we have
branch families, after all?
...We'll take Hizashi's
corpse... and hand it
over in place of yours.
[gasp]
That's father...
And what about that other guy?
Do you know who he is, Neji?
Hizashi Hyuga...
He is my father...
[gasp]
It happened just as
Lord Hiashi told me...
What's wrong, Lord Hiashi?
You're usually so confident
and determined.
This is far too important for me
to act recklessly!  I'm afraid
it simply isn't that easy.
[grunt]
Hizashi!... No, you mustn't!
(Hizashi)
Please, Hiashi...
But why?! Why do this?!
You have Neji!
[gasp]
(Hiashi)
Why do you choose death?
You must understand. I've
resented the head family
for a long time. And even
right now, I'm bitter. I'm not
doing this because you're a part
of the head family.
I want to die protecting you
because you're my brother,
Hiashi.
It's the first time that I've
felt free enough to choose my
own path...
...the first time I have
truly had freedom.
I've always only shown Neji my
ugly side, but this time will
be different.
I ask you... please give
Neji a message for me.
[gasp]
That I wasn't killed to protect
the head family, but to protect
my siblings, family, and village
and by my own free will...
I chose death! And I chose
my freedom!
You think that choosing
death is the same...
as choosing freedom?
Brother, I have become free. I
have defied the fate of the
Hyuga family
And now, this is goodbye.
Do you see?  How he must have
felt?  Having no other choice
but to say those words?!
He had to die for the Hidden
Leaf Village!  It was a fate
that he could not change!
The one and only tiny sliver of
freedom that he was able to
find was choosing to die
in order to protect the
ones that he loved.
You're wrong!  The Hidden Leaf
Village isn't like that!
That was my hope, too.
Huh?
This is now the era of the
younger generation, and I'd
hoped things were different.
[gasps]
However... You are already bound
hand and foot to the code of the
Hidden Leaf.
You have no real choice
over your future...
...or over the
future of your village.
I recognize that now.
That's not true, you-!
And now that you know that
What will you do?
If the village can't be changed
from the inside, all that's left
is to force a change from the
outside.
What do you say? Would you
like to come with me?
Neji... you're
not thinking of...
(Thinking)
Just imagine, me finding you in
this place, hiding...
Heh. It's been a long
time... Orochimaru.
(Neji) Are you telling me that
you can really change the laws
of a village as great as the
Hidden Leaf?
(Masked Man)
Yes. But to do so I
need collaborators.
(Masked Man)
Come with me...
(Neji)
All right, then...
(Naruto)
Neji!  Don't go!
(Neji)
Just wait here, okay?  I only
want to hear what he has to say.
(Naruto)
Next time on Naruto Shippuden:
"The Sealed Power."
(Naruto)
No! I won't let you
go with him!